"Tools for Development and Support of Large-Scale Data-Intensive
Applications"

- Outline of 90 minute presentation

I. Talk [45 minutes]

- Motivation and use cases [10 minutes]

There are several important science and engineering problems that
require the coordinated execution of multiple tasks at scale.  Some
common scenarios include but are not limited to, "an ensemble of
tasks", "loosely-‐coupled simulations of tightly-coupled simulations"
or "multi-‐component multi-physics simulations".  We will discuss
representative scalable examples from each of the categories


- "A Tale of Two Architectures" including OGRES [15 minutes]
- Kmeans as an example of Task-level parallelism [5 minutes]
- RADICAL-Cybertools [15 minutes]
  -- SAGA
  -- RADICAL-Pilot

The tools and capabilities to support coordinated multiple tasks are
limited.  However, a promising way to overcome this common limitation
is the use of a Pilot-‐Job, which can be defined as a container or
placeholder job to provide multi-‐level scheduling via an
application-‐level scheduling overlay over the system scheduler.  We
discuss both the theory and practice of Pilot-Jobs.  Specifically, we
present "RADICAL-Pilot" as a SAGA‐based extensible, interoperable and
scalable Pilot-‐Job implementation.  We then discuss several science
problems that have/are using RADICAL-Pilot to execute multiple
simulations at unprecedented scales on a range of supercomputers and
distributed supercomputing infrastructure such as XSEDE.

II. Hands-On Session [45 minutes]

 - We will use DAS Machines.

 - SAGA
 - Kmeans
 - RADICAL-Pilot to run N Kmeans
 - Loosely-Coupled task

 - Exercise: MapReduce pattern for Kmeans 

In this exercise-based tutorial, we will provide a hands on
introduction to RADICAL-SAGA and Pilot.  At the end of this tutorial,
students will be able to use SAGA to submit remote jobs to a variety
of heterogeneous resources, and will be able to use the RADICAL-Pilot
to execute a "bag of tasks" (of Kmeans) and "loosely‐coupled tasks" ,
amongst other simple execution scenarios.


