Introduction to BigJob -- A SAGA-based Interoperable, Extensible and
Scalable Pilot-Job for XSEDE

By the SAGA team: Andre Luckow, Andre Merzky, Pradeep Mantha, Melissa
Romanus, Ole Weidner, Shantenu Jha

XSEDE ECSS: Yaakoub El-Khamra (TACC)

Pilot-Jobs have proven to be a successful abstractions which providing
first-class support for Multiple Jobs and Application-level
Scheduling.  The SAGA-based Pilot-Job, known as BigJob [1] provides
the unique capability to use Pilot-Jobs on the highest-performing
machines as well as collectively on distributed
cyberinfrastructure. It supports very large scale parallel jobs as
well as high-throughput of many smaller jobs. In addition to the
number and range of job sizes that it supports, what makes BigJob
unique amongst all Pilot-Jobs, is its ability to be programmatically
extended to support a range of "simple workflows", provide
application-level control of both the Pilots and the tasks assigned to
the Pilot-Job, and its interoperability over all XSEDE and OSG
platforms.  Last but not least, BigJob is not "just another tool" but
is an implementation of a theoretically rigorous and conceptual model
for Pilot-Abstractions (referred to as the P* Model).  In other words
the SAGA approach elevates Pilot-Jobs to a fundamental abstraction for
distributed and high-performance computing.

BigJob has been deeply integrated on all major XSEDE resources and
supports thousand of jobs (millions of SUs). BigJob has been at the
heart of two recent and successful ECSS projects. It has been used by
a wide range of application types -- ranging from Computational
Chemistry applications (uncoupled ensembles) to loosely coupled
applications.

This half-day tutorial will bring together SAGA team members, XSEDE
Staff and XSEDE end-users (scientists using BigJob) to deliver:
 -  The basic concepts behind Pilot-Jobs
 -  Several Science Exemplars that routinely use BigJob on XSEDE for extreme-scale science
 -  Introduction on how to use BigJob
 -  How to use BigJob on XSEDE?
 -  How to use BigJob on OSG? And collectively between OSG and XSEDE
 -  How to program and customize BigJob for your needs;  Building Frameworks using BigJob
 -  Advanced Concepts and Application level Scheduling using BigJob

This tutorial will provide a session with hands-on training covering
each of the above.

Requirements: Users will need to bring their laptop. Wireless
connectivity will be required. Accounts on XSEDE machines will be
provided.

[1] https://github.com/saga-project/BigJob/wiki 
